Welcome back.
Let's finish up testing our Google search functionality because with tests the more you have the better
it is in most cases anyway because these are never going to go into production is just for development
purposes it never hurts to have a lot of tests that cover a lot of scenarios because that way we just
cover our bases even more and don't worry too much about repeating yourself or the Do Not Repeat yourself
rule and programming with them when it comes to tests.
It's OK to repeat yourself every once every once in a while especially if it makes the tests really
readable for other people reading your code.
Once again these are never going into production so it's always better to have more tests than less
tests so let's test a few more cases with our Google search function.
Let's say that we also want it to work with undefined and no input and that we want to make sure that
this function is going to work.
And let me just copy this.
Expect
assertion.
And within here in the Google search I'm just going to say undefined and we want that to equal an empty
array.
If we somehow get a weird entry on an undefined input from the user we still want to return an empty
array because maybe on the front end we're still displaying an empty list.
Let's save and that passes.
We now have three tests and let's also test for the null case.
Again we'll copy this and we'll test for know as well.
All right.
Our tests are passing perfect and you can see how nicely outlined there in just for us.
Finally we also want to check if we look at our script that we return no more than three matches.
That's an important feature of our app.
Once again let's say it
does not return more than three matches
and let you make more space for this so we can see
and once again you can see a lot of repeating here.
But it's good.
We're writing tests.
Let's say that again.
I'm just going to copy this because I am lazy to type and we'll say that we want the when we search
dot com which all of these have.
We want this to equal well t equal an array with three items.
How can we do that again.
This is just simple javascript.
We can just do a dot length in the expect bracket which will return hopefully three even though we're
doing dot com and has four items because of our function issue return the length of three.
So let's test that look at that our test pass and another advice here.
Just because your test passes doesn't mean it's always correct.
It's always good to start off by making your tests fail and then trying to make them work.
Let's just make it fail by adding four in here and hit safe and all right.
We see that we expected a value to equal four but we received three That's good.
If we change that to three everything is good.
And you can play around with the inputs a little bit more I think you're Sharon to get this right.
It's not that bad.
It doesn't look that intimidating.
And yet when you look at other people's tests there might be a few more methods that they add other
than to be and to equal.
But the basic principle is the same.
We just have a function that we run tests and that's one final thing.
We can group all of these because remember with our apps thinking things can get bigger and bigger and
bigger we can group tests that are similar especially in this case the ones that are doing Google search
with a another function called the describe and describe will say describes the Google search and this
is the exact same way that the F block was describing the first parameter is a string that will be displayed
on the test and then the second one is a function and we can enter all of these tests inside of this
block.
So now if I say this I see that the tests are grouped together and I know that all these tests that
we're running are under the Google search function so that when we have hundreds of tests we can see
which ones are failing and where we want to target to fix our test.
All right.
More exciting things in the next video I'll see on that one by.